implementation_plan.md, before:

Below is a detailed **implementation plan** for a simple MVP (Minimum Viable Product) of the perspectivalist dis/misinformation agent in Markdown format. This is designed so a software engineering agent (like Cursor) can directly start breaking down tasks, drafting architecture, and scoping dependencies.

***

# Implementation Plan: Perspectivalist Dis/Misinformation Detection MVP

## 1. **Project Overview**

**Goal:**  
Build an MVP agent that processes YouTube video transcripts, analyzes claims across multiple perspectives, detects types of bias and potential deception, and outputs a rich "truth profile" per claim.
  
## 2. **System Architecture**

- **Input:**  
  - YouTube Video URL (to fetch transcript) or raw transcript text
  
- **Processing Pipeline:**  
  1. **Claim Extraction**
  2. **Evidence Retrieval (per Perspective)**
  3. **Perspective-aware Evaluation**
  4. **Bias and Deception Classification**
  5. **Aggregation and Output Formatting**
  
- **Output:**  
  - JSON or Markdown with:  
    - Perspective-specific truth scores per claim
    - Bias tags with explanations
    - Deception/intent assessment
    - Evidence & source references
  
## 3. **MVP Features & Tasks**

### 3.1. **Claim Extraction**
- Use an open-source claim extraction library or basic regex rules for MVP.
- Split text into atomic factual claims; store with text+position.
- [Optional: Use LLM prompt for "extract claims from this text."]

### 3.2. **Perspectives Definition**
Define 2–3 initial perspectives:
- **Mainstream Scientific**
- **Mainstream Journalistic**
- **Partisan (Left or Right)**  
  *(default to US context, customize later)*

### 3.3. **Evidence Retrieval (RAG)**
- For each claim and each perspective:
  - Query a web search API (e.g., Bing Web Search, NewsAPI, SerpAPI).
  - Filter or tag sources by perspective using pre-set lists of domains.
- Store retrieved evidence snippets and their sources.

### 3.4. **Perspective-local Evaluation**
- For each (claim, perspective, snippet):
  - Use an LLM (e.g., OpenAI GPT-3.5/4, open-source models) to generate a support/refute/uncertain judgment with confidence.
  - Prompt format:  
    ```
    Given the following claim and evidence from [perspective], does the evidence support, refute, or is it ambiguous? Explain briefly.
    ```

### 3.5. **Bias and Deception Detection**
- For each claim/video:
  - Use prompt-based or open-source ML models for:
    - Framing/loaded language
    - Sourcing bias
    - Omission/cherry-picking
    - Clickbait/headline sensationalism
  - Output bias categories present (with text highlights or evidence).
  - Deception estimation: If repeating falsehoods or using multiple bias tactics, raise intent suspicion flag.

### 3.6. **Aggregation and Output Formatting**
- Aggregate results into a "Truth Profile" per claim:
  - Table or JSON block per claim:
    - Each perspective’s stance, confidence, and explanation
    - Bias tags + examples
    - Deception/intent flags + brief rationale
  - Provide links to evidence and sources

### 3.7. **API & UI**
- MVP UI:  
  - Simple CLI, notebook, or single-page web interface (React/Vue/Svelte) for uploading/entering text and viewing results.
- API:  
  - REST endpoint to POST YouTube URL and return truth profiles as JSON.

***

## 4. **Suggested Tech Stack**

- **Backend:** Python (FastAPI, Flask) or Node.js (Express)
- **Claim Extraction:** Regular expressions, spaCy, or LLM API
- **RAG:** Google Custom Search JSON API; source classifier for perspective tagging
- **LLMs:** OpenAI GPT-3.5/4, HuggingFace models (for local/dev work)
- **Bias detection:** Prompt-based GPT, `transformers` for sentiment/stance analysis
- **Frontend:** Streamlit (fastest), or basic React app
- **Data store:** In-memory (dict/json) for MVP; extend to SQLite or Postgres if needed

***

## 5. **MVP Task Breakdown**

### Required
- [ ] Set up processing pipeline skeleton (input → claims → retrieval → analysis → output)
- [ ] Implement or integrate basic claim extraction
- [ ] Curate perspective-domain lists (hardcode for MVP)
- [ ] Integrate web search API for RAG
- [ ] Implement perspective-wise evidence filtering/ranking
- [ ] Implement LLM calls for perspective-based stance judgment
- [ ] Implement prompt-based bias and intent detectors
- [ ] Output structured JSON or Markdown summary
- [ ] Minimal frontend/CLI to run a sample and inspect output

### Optional (for MVP+)
- [ ] Add confidence visualization
- [ ] Annotate output text with highlights for bias patterns
- [ ] Extend perspective list and allow configuration
- [ ] Persist data for analytics

***

## 6. **Dependencies and Setup**

- Python 3.10+  
- OpenAI API key (or alternative LLM provider)  
- Web search API key(s)  
- `requests`, `fastapi`, `spacy`, `openai`, `transformers`, `streamlit`, `youtube-transcript-api` (as required)  

***

## 7. **Deliverables**

- README with setup & usage instructions
- Source code (modular, basic test coverage)
- Example input/output for 1–2 articles
- List of known limitations and recommended scaling/upgrades

***

**END OF PLAN**

Commit message:

feat: Implements input sanitization, enhances OpenAI service configuration with validation, and refines project structure with new tests and documentation.

implementation_plan.md, after:

Below is a detailed **implementation plan** for a simple MVP (Minimum Viable Product) of the perspectivalist dis/misinformation agent in Markdown format. This is designed so a software engineering agent (like Cursor) can directly start breaking down tasks, drafting architecture, and scoping dependencies.

***

# Implementation Plan: Perspectivalist Dis/Misinformation Detection MVP

## 1. **Project Overview**

**Goal:**  
Build an MVP agent that processes YouTube video transcripts, analyzes claims across multiple perspectives, detects types of bias and potential deception, and outputs a rich "truth profile" per claim.
  
## 2. **System Architecture**

- **Input:**  
  - YouTube Video URL (to fetch transcript) or raw transcript text
  
- **Processing Pipeline:**  
  1. **Claim Extraction**
  2. **Evidence Retrieval (per Perspective)**
  3. **Perspective-aware Evaluation**
  4. **Bias and Deception Classification**
  5. **Aggregation and Output Formatting**
  
- **Output:**  
  - JSON or Markdown with:  
    - Perspective-specific truth scores per claim
    - Bias tags with explanations
    - Deception/intent assessment
    - Evidence & source references
  
## 3. **MVP Features & Tasks**

### 3.1. **Claim Extraction**
- Use an open-source claim extraction library or basic regex rules for MVP.
- Split text into atomic factual claims; store with text+position.
- [Optional: Use LLM prompt for "extract claims from this text."]

### 3.2. **Perspectives Definition**
Define 2–3 initial perspectives:
- **Mainstream Scientific**
- **Mainstream Journalistic**
- **Partisan (Left or Right)**  
  *(default to US context, customize later)*

### 3.3. **Evidence Retrieval (RAG)**
- For each claim and each perspective:
  - Query a web search API (e.g., Bing Web Search, NewsAPI, SerpAPI).
  - Filter or tag sources by perspective using pre-set lists of domains.
- Store retrieved evidence snippets and their sources.

### 3.4. **Perspective-local Evaluation**
- For each (claim, perspective, snippet):
  - Use an LLM (e.g., OpenAI GPT-3.5/4, open-source models) to generate a support/refute/uncertain judgment with confidence.
  - Prompt format:  
    ```
    Given the following claim and evidence from [perspective], does the evidence support, refute, or is it ambiguous? Explain briefly.
    ```

### 3.5. **Bias and Deception Detection**
- For each claim/video:
  - Use prompt-based or open-source ML models for:
    - Framing/loaded language
    - Sourcing bias
    - Omission/cherry-picking
    - Clickbait/headline sensationalism
  - Output bias categories present (with text highlights or evidence).
  - Deception estimation: If repeating falsehoods or using multiple bias tactics, raise intent suspicion flag.

### 3.6. **Aggregation and Output Formatting**
- Aggregate results into a "Truth Profile" per claim:
  - Table or JSON block per claim:
    - Each perspective’s stance, confidence, and explanation
    - Bias tags + examples
    - Deception/intent flags + brief rationale
  - Provide links to evidence and sources

### 3.7. **API & UI**
- MVP UI:  
  - Simple CLI, notebook, or single-page web interface (React/Vue/Svelte) for uploading/entering text and viewing results.
- API:  
  - REST endpoint to POST YouTube URL and return truth profiles as JSON.

***

## 4. **Suggested Tech Stack**

- **Backend:** Python (FastAPI, Flask) or Node.js (Express)
- **Claim Extraction:** Regular expressions, spaCy, or LLM API
- **RAG:** Google Custom Search JSON API; source classifier for perspective tagging
  - **Client:** `httpx` (lightweight) or `google-api-python-client` (official)
- **LLMs:** OpenAI GPT-3.5/4, HuggingFace models (for local/dev work)
- **Bias detection:** Prompt-based GPT, `transformers` for sentiment/stance analysis
- **Frontend:** Streamlit (fastest), or basic React app
- **Data store:** In-memory (dict/json) for MVP; extend to SQLite or Postgres if needed

***

## 5. **MVP Task Breakdown**

### Required
- [ ] Set up processing pipeline skeleton (input → claims → retrieval → analysis → output)
- [ ] Implement or integrate basic claim extraction
- [ ] Curate perspective-domain lists (hardcode for MVP)
- [ ] Integrate web search API for RAG
- [ ] Implement perspective-wise evidence filtering/ranking
- [ ] Implement LLM calls for perspective-based stance judgment
- [ ] Implement prompt-based bias and intent detectors
- [ ] Output structured JSON or Markdown summary
- [ ] Minimal frontend/CLI to run a sample and inspect output

### Optional (for MVP+)
- [ ] Add confidence visualization
- [ ] Annotate output text with highlights for bias patterns
- [ ] Extend perspective list and allow configuration
- [ ] Persist data for analytics

***

## 6. **Dependencies and Setup**

- Python 3.10+  
- OpenAI API key (or alternative LLM provider)  
- Web search API key(s)  
- `requests` or `httpx` (recommended), `fastapi`, `spacy`, `openai`, `transformers`, `streamlit`, `youtube-transcript-api` (as required)
- **Google Custom Search API Setup:**
  1. **Enable API:** Go to [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/), create a project, and enable the "Custom Search API".
  2. **Create API Key:** In "Credentials", create an API Key.
  3. **Create Search Engine:** Go to [Programmable Search Engine](https://programmablesearchengine.google.com/), create a new search engine.
     - Select "Search the entire web" (or specific sites if preferred).
     - **Get Search Engine ID (cx):** Copy the "Search engine ID" from the overview page.
  4. **Environment Variables:**
     ```bash
     export GOOGLE_API_KEY="your_api_key_here"
     export GOOGLE_CSE_ID="your_search_engine_id_here"
     ```
  5. **Quotas & Billing:** The free tier allows 100 queries/day. Enable billing for higher quotas if needed.
  > [!TIP]
  > If you encounter 429 (Quota Exceeded) errors, check your usage in the Cloud Console.  

***

## 7. **Deliverables**

- README with setup & usage instructions
- Source code (modular, basic test coverage)
- Example input/output for 1–2 articles
- List of known limitations and recommended scaling/upgrades

***

**END OF PLAN**
